Sql operations:
When generating SQL queries:
- Always use parameterised queries or prepared statements
- Validate and sanitise all input before use
- Limit result sets with pagination
- Use principle of least privilege for database connections


User input handling:
For any function handling user input:
- Validate input type and format
- Sanitise strings to prevent XSS
- Check for maximum length limits
- Reject unexpected characters for sensitive fields


Authentication:
For authentication-related code:
- Never store passwords in plain text
- Use Argon2id for password hashing (recommended by OWASP)
  - Alternatives: scrypt, or bcrypt with a high work factor for compatibility requirements
- Implement rate limiting
- Use secure session management

Use these prompts to scaffold a complete project structure:
Project Structure:
"Create a project structure with folders for src, tests, and public directories."

Initial Files:
"Generate a package.json file with a basic project configuration for a Node.js application."

Modular Structure:
"Add subfolders models, controllers, and views inside the src folder for better modularity."


Context and security aware prompt:
Input Validation:
"Write a function to validate and sanitise user registration data (email, password, username) following OWASP guidelines."

Secure Database Query:
"Generate a function to fetch user data by ID using parameterised queries with proper error handling."


Using Inline Suggestions:
/**
 * // Copilot will suggest documentation here
 */
function calculateCompoundInterest(principal, rate, time, n) {
  return principal * Math.pow((1 + rate / n), n * time);
}

For existing undocumented code, use Ask mode:
Prompt:
"Generate comprehensive JSDoc documentation for all functions in this file, including parameter types, return values, exceptions thrown, and usage examples."

Use Copilot to explain complex code for documentation purposes:
Prompt:
"Explain the logic in this addBook function, especially how duplicates are handled. Format the explanation as a documentation comment that could be added above the function."

Another Prompt:
"Describe how this searchBooks function works and how it filters by title or genre. Write it as internal documentation for other developers."

For REST APIs, generate endpoint documentation:
Prompt:
"Generate OpenAPI/Swagger documentation for this Express router file. Include request/response schemas, status codes, and example payloads."

Debugging with Copilot
When code doesn't work as expected, use Copilot to debug:
Identify Issues
Prompt:
"Analyse this function and identify any potential bugs, edge cases, or logical errors."

Fix Specific Errors
Prompt:
"I'm getting 'TypeError: Cannot read property of undefined' when calling searchBooks. What could cause this and how do I fix it?"

Alternative Approaches
Prompt:
"Research alternative error-handling strategies for saving data to local storage. Which approach would be most robust?"









